Checksummed hex encoding (#387)
casper-network/docs: implementation/checksummed-hex.rst

.. _checksum-hex-head:

Checksum Hex Encoding
========================

.. _checksum-hex-intro:

Introduction
------------

> A checksum hex encoding is a format that includes an embedded checksum to avoid copy errors when entering account addresses. While the checksum hex format protects account addresses, it also protects all hex-encoded values. For more details, look at the specification defined in `CEP-57 <https://github.com/casper-network/ceps/pull/57>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A checksum hex encoding is a format that includes an embedded checksum to avoid copy errors when entering account addresses. While the checksum hex format protects account addresses, it also protects all hex-encoded values. For more details, look at the specification defined in `CEP-57 <https://github.com/casper-network/ceps/blob/master/text/0057-checksummed-addresses.md>`_.
```

.. _checksummed-hex-head:

> Checksummed Hex Encoding

Reviewer 2: I propose using "checksum" rather than "checksummed".

Author: There has been a bit of back-and-forth on this one, @Fraser999 do you have an opinion on this?

Reviewer 2: @nilz3ro I will use "checksummed" when I port this document to docs-app.

========================

.. _checksummed-hex-intro:

Introduction
------------

Checksummed hex encoding is a hex encoding format that includes an embedded checksum.

> The checksummed hex encoding spec was defined in **CEP-57** and implemented in **1.x.x**.

Reviewer 2: I suggest adding the version or removing "and implemented ...".

Checksummed hex encoded keys are safer to use than lowercase hex encoded keys because they
enforce the validity of the key, and they make it easier to ensure that transactions cannot be
processed with invalid or nonexistent keys. As an example, if you accidentally change a character
in a checksummed, hex encoded key, it will make the key impossible to decode, so tokens
can't sent to invalid addresses. However, if someone accidentally changes a character in a
normal hex-encoded key, the system would accept it, potentially stranding tokens in an
inaccessible account.

The following :ref:`keys _serialization-standard-serialization-key` are checksummed-hex encoded:
- Account
- Hash
- URef
- Transfer
- DeployInfo
- Balance
- Bid
- Withdraw
- Dictionary
- SystemContractRegistry

.. _checksummed-hex-implementation:

Implementation
--------------

At a high level, the current implementation follows the steps below. The implementation was

> declared in :ref:`cep-57 <https://github.com/casper-network/ceps/blob/master/text/0057-checksummed-addresses.md>` and implemented in **version**.

Reviewer 2: Please add the version here, or take out that piece.

The actual implementation is hosted on github :ref:`here <https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/blob/dev/types/src/checksummed_hex.rs>`.

1. Take a blake2b hash of the input bytes.
2. Convert the hash bytes into a cyclical stream of bits.
3. Convert the input bytes into an array of nibbles.
4. For each nibble, if the nibble is greater than ``10``, meaning it's an
   alphabetical character ``a`` through ``f``, check the next bit in the stream of hash bits.
5. If the bit is ``1``, capitalize the character.

.. _checksummed-hex-public-key-encoding:

How ed25519 and secp256k1 keys are encoded
------------------------------------------

For ed25519 and secp256k1 public keys, the public key bytes are hex encoded with an embedded
checksum, then the hex encoded public key tag is concatenated to the beginning of the encoded
public key.

**Example**
For the ed25519 public key ``01ccDBB42854759141910c134D67cfAf0E78a93AdD396d43045fAa3A567DcABd84``, the encoded public key 
``ccDBB42854759141910c134D67cfAf0E78a93AdD396d43045fAa3A567DcABd84`` is concatenated with the key tag for ed25519 public keys ``01``.

> You can find the implementation on github **link**

Reviewer 2: Please add the link. Example: `GitHub <https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/blob/dev/types/src/checksummed_hex.rs>`_

.. _checksummed-hex-backward-compatibility:

Backward Compatibility
----------------------

.. TODO: Update this with whichever version this ships with.

> Version **1.x.x** is backwards-compatible with lower-hex encoded keys, so if you use a public key that is encoded in lowercase hex,

Reviewer 2: Before merging and updating the live documentation, please finalize the version and this TODO.
